I hope you had some Wordle of a time,
making your Word Master.
You and I we are gonna code this
together kinda piece by piece.
I'm gonna spend most of
the time on the JavaScript,
I feel like you're well equipped at
this point to do that HTML and CSS.
So I'm basically just gonna copy and
paste that from my correct code,
but we'll go through
the JavaScript piece by piece.
So, I'm just gonna create a new
file folder on my desktop.
This will be, WordMasters,
and we're gonna put
word-masters into VS Code.
Okay, I need three files here,
I need a index.html,
And we'll put a nice little
shell in here for that.
This will be called, Wordy Masters,
I've decided now that it's Wordy Masters.
We'll have a style.css, and
we'll have a, I don't know,
what do you wanna call it,
wordy-masters.js.
Here in the index.html,
I do a link CSS this.
So it'll actually generate
that correctly automatically.
If you wanna see what I did,
it's called Emmet.
It's built into VS code.
I can just start typing if it's a valid
HTML document and say link, and
then I just chose CSS right here, and
it just generates the correct tag for me.
It's kinda nice.
Same thing here with scripts,
you just go script source here, and
this is just gonna go to, you can actually
even to have lets say, wordy-masters.
Help you choose the correct one.
Okay, we have a nice kind of,
A script tag there.
Nice little skeleton going.
So, let's just go ahead and
go grab this from the solution,
cuz I think this is gonna be not
the most interesting part of this.
Copy this, And
I gotta make sure this is gonna be to
style.css, and this is going to be to,
I called it wordy-masters cuz
I have decided to change.
Okay, so let's just talk through
what I did with my HTML.
All of the head looks familiar to you.
You might be wondering why put ./,
or don't put ./,
they mean exactly the same thing.
So you can either put in the ./
which just means, in this directory,
I want style.css, or you can put
styles.css that both works as well.
I have a header here called
the navbar with the brand on it.
I have my loading spinner here.
And what I'm gonna do while I'm coding
this, is I'm just going to add something
called hidden,
which is a class that I'm going to make.
Which is going to set its visibility to
be invisible, and then when I remove it
it'll be showing it, so it just makes
it easy to make it show up and go away.
And then I have here,
I called it the scoreboard.
In retrospect,
I don't know why I called it a scoreboard,
just could have called letters though.
And then I just have 29, or
actually I have 30 spaces, right?
Cuz I have six guesses,
and I have five per row.
Now, you could just as equally,
you saw what I did in my calculator,
I put them into division of rows.
This time it made sense to me,
it does well,
these are all going to be exactly the same
size, and I can use this to my advantage
to be able to get the correct ones, so
I put them all just in the same div.
Okay, and
they're all empty cuz none of them have
any guesses in them at the moment.
And then that's it,
that is all of my HTML.
So that's good.
Let's go grab the style.css here.
And again, I'm gonna just copy and
paste this one as well.
We'll walk through it but then we'll
hand code off the JavaScript together
Okay, box sizing,
we're pretty familiar with that.
You might have seen this,
this is just a really common way
of using built-in fonts
to the operating system.
So when we did open Sans for
the previous project,
your browser has to go out,
talk to Google, download a font.
That's not free, it's not exactly super
expensive for someone to do that.
And when I say expensive,
meaning it doesn't take a long time, but
it takes some time, right?
If you do this, everything is
built in to a user's browser.
So I end up doing this one a lot.
This is probably the font
that I end up using the most.
Apple's system, it just says,
use the font that macOS has built into it,
which I believe is currently called
San Francisco, is the name of the font.
BlinkMacSystemFont, so if this is in
Chrome, it's saying, use San Francisco.
Then if the user has a one in
built into a called Segoe,
which is Windows' default font.
Then Roboto, then Oxygen, then Ubuntu,
these two I think are from Linux.
I believe Roboto is built
into most operating systems.
So it's just going through like a list.
It's, do you have this font?
Do you have this font?
Eventually it'll eventually
land on Sans-Serif,
which is, look, just give me
a font that doesn't have serifs,
which is the little accents at the end.
You can see Open Sans is here, right?
Helvetica Neue,
that's another one that's fairly common.
But that's how font family is,
just check if they have this one.
If they don't, try this one,
then try this one, then try this one.
Almost everyone will have,
Down here to Ubuntu.
99% of your users will have one of these.
Okay, that's all.
You don't have to use this one either,
you could have made it.
I know you could just use Helvetica Neue,
that's a really good font,
you could use that one directly,
there's a bunch of them.
Okay, I used this for
the scoreboard,
I used grid template columns.
And I just said, look, there's gonna
be five things in each one of these and
just spaced them equally, and
you end up with this, right?
One, two, three, four, five, right?
So just to drive that home,
if I come in here and I edit this to be,
1fr one more, right, it'll add one more.
Or if I do this it'll be four to a line,
But we want five to a line,
so, That is the power of grid.
Okay, I make everything uppercase,
that's fine.
Here's a correct class, the background
is dark green and the color's white.
If they're close,
then I add a class called close.
I chose golden rod, that seems like
a nice shade of yellow, a little dark.
And then wrong,
I made a kind of a light gray.
And then invalid,
it does this flash animation.
So it goes from 0 to 5%, it goes from
whatever color it was to crimson, so
that's like a quick flash to red.
And then it spends the rest of time
flashing back to gray which is CCC.
So you get this nice flashing effect
whenever you add a invalid class.
And then this is the loading spinner,
Which is
using literally the exact one that I
showed you in the css animations section.
Hidden, so let's talk about hidden for
a second, going back over here.
So notice this has the hidden here and
it has visibility hidden.
What's the difference between
display none and visibility hidden?
Visibility hidden, it still takes
up space even if you can't see it.
If it's display none it
totally removes everything.
Let me show you what I'm talking about.
So right now if I unhide this you'll
see the spinning thing, right,
the loading indicator?
But notice it's not moving, right?
So it's still taking up the space in
the DOM, it's pushing everything down,
which is what I want, right?
I don't want it to jank up and down.
So if I do display none,
Let's do this rather this way,
display none.
Notices it jumps up and, I'll just
get rid of the the visibility here.
Okay, notice it jumps up and down, Right,
cuz when I say display none it
stops taking up space in the DOM.
Whereas with visibility hidden,
It just makes it invisible but
it still takes up space.
Does that makes sense?
So, nice little trick there to nicely
show something and then hide it later.
And for the swirl here,
I literally just used an emoji, right?
There's a spiral emoji here that I used.
You could have totally made this, I don't
know, a dog or something like that.
Whitespace, what are you doing?
I would like dog, please.
There we go.
So you can have a dog loading
spinner instead of a spiral.
It's literally just making
whatever's in that div spin.
Okay, and
then down here this is the same rainbow
animation that we used before as well.
And I called this winner, so
if I inspect elements on this,
and I add additional
class here called winner,
now notice that it is rainbow type.
So you'll find you do this a lot with
JavaScript and CSS and things like that.
Rather than directly manipulating
the styles, I just add a class, right, or
I'll take away a class.
That way all of my styles
still stay in my CSS, right?
But they're kind of conditionally applied
by whether it has the class or not.
Okay, that is all of
my, HTML and CSS.
Let's just open this now.
We're on the desktop and
I made wordy-masters.
There you go.
And by default,
this is what it looks like.
Notice by default, I don't hide the
spiral, that's because whenever someone
loads the page for the first time,
it still needs to grab the word, right?
It needs to load the page and then it
needs to hit the API to grab the word.
So by default the user is loaded
into a loading state, right?
So that's why I don't
hide that right away.
Okay, So,
let's go ahead and
start writing some code.
We're in wordy-masters.js.
>> There is a quick question.
>> Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
>> When I write HTML, and after that I
write CSS, then I write JavaScript and
I switch between those,
there's some delay and
making my mindset, right, for
what I'm using the language.
Do you have any tips to avoid that, or
just avoid the delay in your mindset?
>> Totally.
>> Writing each language.
>> It's a good question.
I mean,
basically it's context switching, right?
You have all this stuff in your brain and
then you're thinking in terms of raw HTML
and then you have to
context switch to CSS.
And kinda have throw away the context
in HTML and regain context in CSS,
that is inefficient, right?
Where there's some inefficiency and
loss in your context switching.
It's the same principle of, you
are working on something and maybe you're
working on homework and then someone says,
hey, can you help me for five minutes?
So you go do something and come back, and
you've lost your entire train of thought,
right?
Same principle here.
It's tough cuz some of
it is just necessary.
One thing that you can do,
rather than just try and
holistically write all of the HTML
at once and all the CSS at once,
you can rather tackle it
in terms of small problems.
So maybe you start by just
writing the header first, right?
Where is I'm just gonna work on this part
and you do all of the HTML and CSS for
that small piece at a time, and then that
way you're always thinking about headers,
right?
And HTML and CSS at the same time
you're taking a smaller problem and
you're just working on that.
That can certainly help, I don't know,
otherwise some of it's just necessary.
But it's gonna come down to
your personal preference.
The way that I code in the way that works
for me is not gonna be the same way.
So, there was a while that my
wife learned how to code and
it was really interesting to watch her.
She would very heavily go into the CSS
first before thinking about any of
the JavaScript.
And I'm immediately thinking about
the JavaScript as soon as they hop into
anything.
So, just like some people
are visual versus audio learners,
I think people have different
styles of writing code, and
you kinda just have to experiment
with various different ways.
Some just kind of high level
advice is if you watch me code and
what I'm doing is really working for
you, just copy what I'm doing.
Just steal my workflow and
work on it and then you'll find, well,
Brian does this but I don't like this,
so I'm gonna change this.
And you kind of steal my way and then you
just modify it until it works for you.
And then you should watch a bunch
of courses, cuz for example,
Sarah Drasner codes a very
different way than I do.
And mine is not any better or hers is not
any better, they're just different, but
you might like the way that Sarah
does things better than I do.
So you might check out some of her
courses to gain some of that context.